# push_swap
push_swap is a algorithm project. Data will need to be sorted and you have at your disposal a set of int values, 2 stacks and a set of instructions to manipulate both stacks.

The Goal is to write 2 programs in C.

1. checker
> Checker takes integer arguments and reads instructions on the standard output. Once read, checker executes them and displays OK if integers are sorted. Otherwise, it will display KO.

2. push_swap
> Push_swap calculates and displays on the standard output the smallest program using Push_swap instruction language that sorts integer arguments received.

## Game Rules
Following operations are allowed to use.
- `sa` : **swap a** - swap the first 2 elements at the top of stack a. Do nothing if there
is only one or no elements).
- `sb` : **swap b** - swap the first 2 elements at the top of stack b. Do nothing if there
is only one or no elements).
- `ss` : **sa** and **sb** at the same time.
- `pa` : **push a** - take the first element at the top of b and put it at the top of a. Do
nothing if b is empty.
- `pb` : **push b** - take the first element at the top of a and put it at the top of b. Do
nothing if a is empty.
- `ra` : **rotate a** - shift up all elements of stack a by 1. The first element becomes
the last one.
- `rb` : **rotate b** - shift up all elements of stack b by 1. The first element becomes
the last one.
- `rr` : **ra** and **rb** at the same time.
- `rra` : **reverse rotate a** - shift down all elements of stack a by 1. The last element
becomes the first one.
- `rrb` : **reverse rotate b** - shift down all elements of stack b by 1. The last element
becomes the first one.
- `rrr` : **rra** and **rrb** at the same time

At the end, stack b must be empty and all integers must be in stack a, sorted in ascending order.

## Getting Started
```bash
git clone https://github.com/kefujiwa/push_swap.git
cd push_swap
make all
```
This will generate checker and push_swap program will.

### Usage
```bash
# generate random list of integers
ARG=`jot -r -s " " 100 -2147483648 2147483647`

# check how many moves (instructions) the push_swap program generates.
./push_swap `echo $ARG` | wc -l

# check if the instructions generated by push_swap will sort the integers in ascending order correctly.
./push_swap `echo $ARG` | ./checker $ARG

# use -v option if you want to check the stack’s status after each operation.
./push_swap `echo $ARG` | ./checker -v $ARG

# use -c option if you can hardly see the result of checker program.
./push_swap `echo $ARG` | ./checker -c $ARG
```
